doc: first cut at accessiblity section (#118)
nodeshift/nodejs-reference-architecture: docs/development/accessibility.md

# Accessibility

In the context of software development accessibility refers to

> the ability of people with disabilities to effectively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the use of assistive technologies to aid users in effectively
```

accessibility features are for everyone, not only for "disabled people" - see [microsoft's inclusivity kit](https://download.microsoft.com/download/b/0/d/b0d4bf87-09ce-4417-8f28-d60703d672ed/inclusive_toolkit_manual_final.pdf)
<img width="608" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-04 at 16 40 29" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1466420/166693409-97ea3edb-6d73-4e5a-8241-e63ee10365dc.png">

> use the software being developed. When designing interactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the software being developed. When designing interactions
```

> through the screen, keyboard, mouse and speakers it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through the screen, keyboard, mouse, and speakers it is
```
oxford comma

> important to ensure that people with disabilities will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
important to ensure that the widest possible group of users will be
```

able to effectively participate in those interactions.

> For software developed in Node.js the user interface (UI) typically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For software developed with JavaScript the user interface (UI) typically
```

falls into one of the following:

> 1) Browswer based UI delivered though JavaScript, HTML and CSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Browser based UI delivered though JavaScript, HTML and CSS.
```

1) Desktop type application built on something like
   [electron](https://www.electronjs.org/).
1) Command line scripts/applications.

Both 1) and 2) above leverage JavaScript,
HTML and CSS in a similar manner and we'll use
web based applications to describe both of these.

In web based applications, the HTML, JavaScript and CSS run
in the browser (or equivalent in frameworks like electron)
and is referred to as the front-end. The back-end running
on Node.js provides the business logic to the front
end through REST APIs, websockets or some other set of APIs.

In this context, the focus on accessibility is in the
development of the front-end as opposed to
JavaScript running under Node.js in the back-end.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Legal Requirements
We have outlined above the moral obligation to ensure that our software is accessible. Many jurisdictions also mandate software accessibility by law. For example, in [Israel](https://www.gov.il/he/Departments/Guides/website_accessibility?chapterIndex=3), websites that offer a public service (to exclude, e.g. a private blog) must conform to WCAG 2.0 at the AA level, and businesses that do not comply may be liable for statutory damages.
```

This may need to include legal disclaimers, IANAL, etc.

## Recommendation Components

N/A

## Guidance

The teams experience is that it is useful for organizations and teams
building products or components with significant user interfaces to
define guidelines and or design systems that apply to their product or organization
and help ensure accssibility is planned in from the start.
Examples of such guidelines which apply to the work of the team members include:

* [IBM Accessibility requirements](https://www.ibm.com/able/requirements/requirements/)
* [PatternFly accessibility guide](https://pf4.patternfly.org/accessibility-guide/)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Developers may also use pre-made components with accessibility features built in:

* [PatternFly React](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-react)
* [Red Hat Design System](https://github.com/redhat-ux/red-hat-design-system/)

Users should make sure to read and understand the accessibility documentation for pre-made components.
```

It is also best practice to incorporate testing of your application with common

> assisitive technologies like screen readers and limiting input to keyboard interaction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assisitive technologies like screen readers and limiting input to keyboard interaction. See [tooling](#tooling) below.
```

For those working on Linux
[List Of Accessibility Documentation Sources And Tools (For GNU/Linux Development And Testing)](https://desktopqe-jenkins.rhev-ci-vms.eng.rdu2.redhat.com:3200/desktopqe/d06-projects/a11y.A11y_devel_doc_sources.html)
provides information on good starting points.

### Web based applications

In web based applications most of the accessibility work is done in the front-end. The 
[Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/) is
the recognized standard for making a web application accessible. The teams
members have found the
[WCAG quick reference](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/quickref/) a useful

> reference for working with the guidelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reference for working with the guidelines. The [WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices Examples](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/examples/) provide a comprehensive list of exemplary widgets complete with code snippets and live demos.
```

command line interfaces, the team recommends that you review the corresponding
sections of the web accessibility guidelines.

[Accessibility of Command Line Interfaces](https://dl.acm.org/doi/fullHtml/10.1145/3411764.3445544)
provides a number of good recommendations which are not specific to Node.js. These
include:

* Ensure that an HTML version of all documentation is available.
* Provide a way to translate long outputs into another accessible format.
* Document the output structure for each command.
* Provide a way to translate tables in CLI output into another accessible format.
* Ensure that all commands provide status and progress indication.
* Ensure that all status and progress indicators used are screen reader friendly.
* Ensure that error messages are understandable when read aloud.

### Tooling

Accessibility tooling is generally not Node.js specific. However some tools are
built in Node.js and are delivered through npm. They will, therefore, fit easily in a JavaScript
or Node.js workflow when nessary. For example:
* [eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y)
* [axe-core](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axe-core)

> * [pa11y](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pa11y)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [pa11y](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pa11y)
* [web test runner](https://modern-web.dev/docs/test-runner/overview/) and [open-wc testing helpers](https://open-wc.org/docs/testing/chai-a11y-axe/) provide framework-agnostic a11y unit testing tools. See [PatternFly Elements' `<pfe-accordion>`](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-elements/blob/6363f03d2d95db5146eee6453330b919655fb034/elements/pfe-accordion/test/pfe-accordion.spec.ts#L449-L452) for an example of how to write keyboard accessibility tests for interactive widgets
```
